README.md, before:

Experimental ROS2 node for access to Basler camera via pylon CBaslerUniversalInstantCamera API.

Supports *low-latency, high-speed, arbitrary framerate, free-running* mode.  
At time of writing, the official driver does not support acquisition overlap.
Usage of the software trigger is [hard-coded](https://github.com/basler/pylon-ros-camera/blob/ed094fad02eed38af830a052c7420befc6483ef3/pylon_camera/include/pylon_camera/internal/impl/pylon_camera_dart.hpp#L94), effectively halving the maximum frame-rate.

Supports USB and GigE cameras. Tested with a Basler daA1280-54uc camera.
Known to work on Ubuntu 20.04 "Focal" with ROS2 "foxy" as well as Ubuntu 22.04 "Jammy" with ROS2 "humble".

### Usage

#### Topic

If the camera provides pixels in bayer pattern (raw), the default topic name is `image_raw`.  
If the camera provides pixels in RGB (color) or MONO (grayscale), the default topic name is `image`.  

#### as a node

Start a node which publishes image data on topic `/image`.  
The camera will be opened using its default parameters:

    ros2 run pylon_instant_camera node

Start a node which publishes image data on topic `/pylon_camera/image_raw`.  
The camera will be opened and configured with the feature-set stored in `settings.pfs`.  
Camera calibration data will be loaded from `camera_calibration.yaml` and published at `/pylon_camera/camera_info` for image rectification.

    ros2 run pylon_instant_camera node --ros-args \
    -r __ns:=/pylon_camera \
    --param camera_settings_pfs:=settings_bayer.pfs \
    --param camera_info_yaml:=camera_calibration.yaml

#### within a Composit node

Launch file based on [this example](https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/foxy/composition/launch/composition_demo.launch.py), with software debayer and camera image rectification:

    import launch
    from launch_ros.actions import ComposableNodeContainer
    from launch_ros.descriptions import ComposableNode
    def generate_launch_description():
        """Use composition for all image-processing nodes.
        Keeps overhead low since image data can – theoretically – reside in shared memory."""
        image_processing = ComposableNodeContainer(
                name = 'container',
                namespace = 'pylon_camera_node',
                package = 'rclcpp_components',
                executable = 'component_container',
                composable_node_descriptions = [
                    ComposableNode(
                        name = 'pylon_camera',
                        namespace = 'pylon_camera_node',
                        package = 'pylon_instant_camera',
                        plugin = 'pylon_instant_camera::PylonCameraNode',
                        parameters = [{
                            'camera_settings_pfs': 'settings.pfs',
                            'camera_info_yaml': 'camera_calibration.yaml'
                            }]
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::DebayerNode',
                        name='debayer_node',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node'
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::RectifyNode',
                        name='pylon_camera_rectify_color',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node'
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::RectifyNode',
                        name='pylon_camera_rectify_mono',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node',
                        remappings=[
                            ('image', 'image_mono')
                        ],
                    )
                ]
        )
        return launch.LaunchDescription([image_processing])

Viewing the unprocessed camera image is possible by manually loading the ShowImage tool like [this](https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Tutorials/Composition.html):

    ros2 component load /pylon_camera_node/container image_tools image_tools::ShowImage --node-namespace /pylon_camera_node


#### pylon Feature Stream (pfs)

The pylon Viewer included in the [pylon SDK](https://www.baslerweb.com/en/products/software/basler-pylon-camera-software-suite/pylon-sdks/) stores all the settings in one file of tab-separated key-value-pairs. Set the pixel type like this:

    # {05D8C294-F295-4dfb-9D01-096BD04049F4}
    # GenApi persistence file (version 3.1.0)
    PixelFormat	RGB8

With the pixel format RGB8, you do not need the DebayerNode and remappings mentioned in the example above.

### Known Issues

#### Payload Discarded

This warning can be emitted:

    Payload data has been discarded. Payload data can be discarded by the camera device if the available bandwidth is insufficient.

This is normal for USB connections and should only happen once after camera start.

#### Performance

ROS 2 does not offer a true zero-copy communication mechanism – not even via shared memory – see [discussion here](https://github.com/ros-perception/image_common/issues/212).

Commit message:

Document how to select a camera.

README.md, after:

Experimental ROS2 node for access to Basler camera via pylon CBaslerUniversalInstantCamera API.

Supports *low-latency, high-speed, arbitrary framerate, free-running* mode.  
At time of writing, the official driver does not support acquisition overlap.
Usage of the software trigger is [hard-coded](https://github.com/basler/pylon-ros-camera/blob/ed094fad02eed38af830a052c7420befc6483ef3/pylon_camera/include/pylon_camera/internal/impl/pylon_camera_dart.hpp#L94), effectively halving the maximum frame-rate.

Supports USB and GigE cameras. Tested with a Basler daA1280-54uc camera.
Known to work on Ubuntu 22.04 "Jammy" with ROS2 "humble".

### Usage

#### Topic

If the camera provides pixels in bayer pattern (raw), the default topic name is `image_raw`.  
If the camera provides pixels in RGB (color) or MONO (grayscale), the default topic name is `image`.  

#### As a Node

Start a node which publishes image data on topic `/image`.  
The camera will be opened using its default parameters:

    ros2 run pylon_instant_camera node

Start a node which publishes image data on topic `/pylon_camera/image_raw`.  
The camera will be opened and configured with the feature-set stored in `settings.pfs`.  
Camera calibration data will be loaded from `camera_calibration.yaml` and published at `/pylon_camera/camera_info` for image rectification.

    ros2 run pylon_instant_camera node --ros-args \
    -r __ns:=/pylon_camera \
    --param camera_settings_pfs:=settings_bayer.pfs \
    --param camera_info_yaml:=camera_calibration.yaml

#### Within a Composite Node

Launch file based on [this example](https://github.com/ros2/demos/blob/foxy/composition/launch/composition_demo.launch.py), with software debayer and camera image rectification:

    import launch
    from launch_ros.actions import ComposableNodeContainer
    from launch_ros.descriptions import ComposableNode
    def generate_launch_description():
        """Use composition for all image-processing nodes.
        Keeps overhead low since image data can – theoretically – reside in shared memory."""
        image_processing = ComposableNodeContainer(
                name = 'container',
                namespace = 'pylon_camera_node',
                package = 'rclcpp_components',
                executable = 'component_container',
                composable_node_descriptions = [
                    ComposableNode(
                        name = 'pylon_camera',
                        namespace = 'pylon_camera_node',
                        package = 'pylon_instant_camera',
                        plugin = 'pylon_instant_camera::PylonCameraNode',
                        parameters = [{
                            'camera_settings_pfs': 'settings.pfs',
                            'camera_info_yaml': 'camera_calibration.yaml'
                            }]
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::DebayerNode',
                        name='debayer_node',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node'
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::RectifyNode',
                        name='pylon_camera_rectify_color',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node'
                    ),
                    ComposableNode(
                        package='image_proc',
                        plugin='image_proc::RectifyNode',
                        name='pylon_camera_rectify_mono',
                        namespace='pylon_camera_node',
                        remappings=[
                            ('image', 'image_mono')
                        ],
                    )
                ]
        )
        return launch.LaunchDescription([image_processing])

Viewing the unprocessed camera image is possible by manually loading the ShowImage tool like [this](https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Tutorials/Composition.html):

    ros2 component load /pylon_camera_node/container image_tools image_tools::ShowImage --node-namespace /pylon_camera_node


#### Pylon Feature Stream (pfs)

The pylon Viewer included in the [pylon SDK](https://www.baslerweb.com/en/products/software/basler-pylon-camera-software-suite/pylon-sdks/) stores all the settings in one file of tab-separated key-value-pairs. Set the pixel type like this:

    # {05D8C294-F295-4dfb-9D01-096BD04049F4}
    # GenApi persistence file (version 3.1.0)
    PixelFormat	RGB8

With the pixel format RGB8, you do not need the DebayerNode and remappings mentioned in the example above.

#### Multiple Cameras

In order to select one of multiple cameras, you may supply one or more parameter to identify the particular camera:

* `serial_number` – Can be viewed in the pylon Viewer.
* `user_defined_name` – Can be set via the pylon Viewer.
* `ip_address` – For ethernet cameras.
* `full_name` – For USB cameras. This value may change upon device re-connect. Use with caution.

These values are also displayed in the log.

You may also want to remap the namespace so the output topic will not clash:

    ros2 run pylon_instant_camera node --ros-args --param serial_number:="123456789" -r __ns:=/front_camera

### Known Issues

#### Payload Discarded

This warning can be emitted:

    Payload data has been discarded. Payload data can be discarded by the camera device if the available bandwidth is insufficient.

This is normal for USB connections and should only happen once after camera start.

#### Performance

ROS 2 does not offer a true zero-copy communication mechanism – not even via shared memory – see [discussion here](https://github.com/ros-perception/image_common/issues/212).
